JUDY WOODRUFF: Good
evening. I'm Judy Woodruff.
On the "NewsHour" tonight: The
U.S. ramps up its role in Syria,
putting special operations
forces on the ground to bolster
the fight against ISIS.
Then: a look at organized
labor's role in this year's race
for the White House.
JON RALSTON, "Ralston Reports":
Withholding their endorsement, I
think they actually pushed
Hillary into the position they
want on the so-called Cadillac
tax in Obamacare, which
they want repealed.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And it's Friday.
Mark Shields and David Brooks
are here to analyze another
full week of news.
All that and more on
tonight's "PBS NewsHour."
(BREAK)
JUDY WOODRUFF: Shipwrecks off
the Greek islands claimed more
migrant lives today, 31 in all,
most of them children. That made
50 dead in three days, as the
weather worsens in the
Aegean Sea.
The deadliest incident today was
near the island of Kalymnos,
where 19 people drowned
trying to cross from Turkey.
Disturbing scenes were repeated
on Lesbos, where more bodies
washed ashore, including several
babies and other children.
Volunteers helped remove them
for burials.
Meanwhile, in Athens, Greek
Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras
blasted Europe for its handling
of the crisis.
ALEXIS TSIPRAS, Greek Prime
Minister (through translator): I
want to say that, as a member
of the European leadership, I
feel shame, shame both for the
inability of Europe to
deal effectively with this human
drama, but also for the quality
of discussion.
JUDY WOODRUFF: In addition to
the dead, the Greek coast guard
said that it rescued nearly
600 people in the last 24 hours.
Many of the migrants and
refugees have fled Syria,
Afghanistan,
and Iraq.
President Obama says he's ready
to sign a two-year federal
budget deal that won approval
in the U.S. Senate early today.
It passed 64 to 35, in spite of
conservative opposition,
and just in time to avert a
federal default next week. The
package includes $80 billion
in new spending. It also
prevents a cut in Social
Security disability benefits and
a
major hike in Medicare premiums.
In the presidential campaign,
Democrat Hillary Clinton worked
to consolidate support among
black voters in a swing across
the South. In Atlanta, she vowed
to end disparities between
crack and powder cocaine prison
sentences, and called for other
reforms.
HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (D),
Presidential Candidate: As
president, I will work with
Congress to
pass legislation to ban racial
profiling by federal, state, and
local law enforcement.
(CHEERING AND APPLAUSE)
HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON: It is
wrong, it is demeaning, and it
doesn't keep us safe or
help solve crime. It's time for
us to put that practice behind
us.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Clinton also won
a key endorsement from New York
City Mayor Bill de Blasio.
Also today, the Republican
National Committee suspended its
partnership with NBC News for
a presidential primary debate in
February. GOP candidates
complained that CNBC moderators
asked off-topic or -- quote --
"gotcha questions" during this
week's face-off in Colorado.
The last British detainee at
Guantanamo Bay has returned home
after being held for nearly
14 years. Shaker Aamer is a
Saudi national who was married
to a British woman. He arrived
back in Britain on a private
plane, hours after being
released from the U.S. military
prison in Cuba. He was suspected
of links to al-Qaida, but never
charged. With Aamer's
departure, 112 detainees
remain at Guantanamo.
New research is out that shows
breast cancer no longer strikes
black women less often than
whites. A study published this
week found the two races are now
diagnosed at the same
rate. That could be linked to
stepped-up screenings and higher
obesity rates in black
populations.
At the same time,
African-American women are still
more likely to die of the
disease. The
study appears in "C.A.," a
cancer journal for clinicians.
Stocks fell on Wall Street
today, but managed to post their
best monthly gain in four years.
The Dow Jones industrial average
lost 92 points, to close at
17663. The Nasdaq fell more than
20 points, and the S&P 500
dropped 10. For the week, the
indexes were all up less than
a percent.
Still to come on the "NewsHour":
American boots on the ground in
Syria; labor unions'
waning influence on politics; a
tax increase threatens a Greek
speciality, and much more.
The United States steps up its
mission in Syria, part of a
coalition aimed at dismantling
the Islamic State, as leaders
from the U.S., Russia and Iran
meet in Vienna trying to find
a political end
to the civil war.
Confirmation that commandos are
going into Northern Syria came
at the day's White House
briefing.
JOSH EARNEST, White House Press
Secretary: The core of our
military strategy inside of
Syria is to build up the
capacity of local forces.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Spokesman Josh
Earnest gave few details on
whether the U.S. effort will
aid Kurdish or Arab
fighters or both.
JOSH EARNEST: The president did
make a decision to intensify
that support by offering a small
number of U.S. special
operations military personnel to
offer them some advice and
assistance
on the ground as they
take the fight to ISIL.
JUDY WOODRUFF: That small
number, Earnest said, is fewer
than 50. And he insisted they
will not be on a combat mission.
JOSH EARNEST: The responsibility
that they have is not to lead
the charge to take a hill.
It still means that they're in a
dangerous situation. It still
means that they will have
all of the equipment that they
need to protect themselves if
necessary.
JUDY WOODRUFF: U.S. special
operations troops have conducted
raids inside Syria, but this
will be their first sustained
presence. It comes amid Russia's
month-old air campaign
in support of Syrian President
Bashar al-Assad. And it marks a
shift for President Obama.
He had said repeatedly he
wouldn't commit ground troops in
Syria.
The military developments came
as Secretary of State John Kerry
was in Vienna for talks
on a diplomatic solution in
Syria. There was no agreement on
the future of Assad, but the
U.S., Russia and other nations
directed the U.N. to try again
to bring Syria's government
and opposition
groups to the table.
JOHN KERRY, U.S. Secretary of
State: The United States
position is, there is no way
that President
Assad can unite and govern
Syria, and we believe that
Syrians deserve a different
choice. And
our goal is to work with Syria's
many factions to develop that
choice. But we can't allow
that difference to get in the
way of the possibility of
diplomacy to end the killing and
to find
the solution.
JUDY WOODRUFF: The ministers
will hold another round of talks
in two weeks.
Meanwhile, the killing in Syria
continued apace. Opposition
activists said a government
rocket barrage in a Damascus
suburb left at least 57 dead and
many more wounded.
We take a closer look at the
decision to send special
operations forces to Syria with
Greg
Jaffe, who covers the Pentagon
for The Washington Post.
Greg, welcome back
to the program.
So the White House is saying
that these special operations
forces are there to help what
they
call moderates in the opposition
forces. What does that mean? Who
is that?
GREG JAFFE, The Washington Post:
You know, it's primarily a
Kurdish group called the
YPG up north, along with some --
what they call the Syrian-Arab
coalition, which is a
coalition, sort of, of Arab
fighters who are fighting
alongside the Kurds up in the
north.
JUDY WOODRUFF: What's the
significance of singling out
those two groups to help them?
GREG JAFFE: You know, I think
the first thing is, I think they
-- we feel like they share
our values or at least our
goals. They're sort of moderate
Syrian forces, and they have
shown some success.
I think that's what the
administration is trying to
build on here. The YPG in
particular,
backed by kind of American
airstrikes, has been able to
take back some ground from the
Islamic State. So, in a place
where they haven't seen a lot of
success, it's something.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Now, when they
say advice and assistance, which
is how the White House described
it, what does that mean? Exactly
what are they going to be doing
for them?
GREG JAFFE: You know, the
Pentagon officials we spoke to
said that they primarily would
be at the headquarters level.
So, they won't be on the front
lines. They won't be calling
in airstrikes from what we call
sometimes first point of cover
and concealment. They
will be further back than that.
And I think a big part of what
they do is assess the forces,
figure out what they need,
what equipment, weaponry the
U.S. can help provide them and
then also help them plan
the operation, make sure that
they have folks in the right
places, that they're
coordinating
as best as possible
with U.S. airpower.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So the mission
here is mainly anti-ISIS or
anti-Assad?
GREG JAFFE: No, it's anti-ISIS.
I think that's the complicating
factor of the Russians being
involved as well, because I
think a lot of the forces that
we have worked with in the
north are looking south to help
their brethren who feel kind of
battered by the Assad regime
and by Russia, but I think
that's a fight that we have
decided we don't want to pick
right now.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, Greg Jaffe,
we heard the White House
spokesman, Josh Earnest, say
this
is not a combat mission. He said
it's not a major departure from
what the U.S. has been
doing.
How different is it from what
the U.S. has been doing? And
have there been covert
operations
like this already going on?
GREG JAFFE: Well, there
certainly have some been raids
that are covert. Have there been
folks on the ground doing
advising and assisting on sort
of a long-term basis? Not that
we
know of.
So it does seem like a
departure. Look, it's not a lot
of troops. I think it's less
than
50. But, emotionally, it's a big
deal. We haven't had boots on
the ground in Syria before,
and now we do.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Greg Jaffe at The
Washington Post, we thank you.
GREG JAFFE: Yes,
thanks for having me.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, just how
significant a move is this
decision to send these special
forces into Syria? And what
impact will it have on trying to
end the war diplomatically?
For that, we turn to former U.S.
Ambassador to Russia Michael
McFaul, and Joshua Landis.
He's the director for Middle
East studies at the University
of Oklahoma.
And we welcome you both
back to the program.
Ambassador McFaul, let
me start with you.
Before I ask about these
diplomatic talks in Vienna, what
effect do you think this
operation,
this announcement of putting
special operations forces into
Iraq is going to have on any
effort
to resolve Syria diplomatically?
MICHAEL MCFAUL, Former U.S.
Ambassador to Russia: Well, I
think it will be in the margins,
but not a direct effect.
I think it really does have to
do with the desire by the Obama
administration to be more
effective against ISIL. As
Secretary Kerry said today,
under Operation Inherent
Resolve,
they have now attacked -- they
have had 7,300 airstrikes, to
little effect. And now I think
they're doubling down, in
particular with the actors that
they think have been most
effective before.
But it was a station
identification for our Russian
interlocutors and for everybody
else
that we are involved in Syria
and that our people and our
partners in Syria have to be
part of a negotiated process.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Joshua Landis,
how do you see this move by the
U.S. to put less than 50
special operations troops in? Is
it going to have an effect on
resolving what's going
on in Syria?
JOSHUA LANDIS, University of
Oklahoma: It's not going to
resolve anything. It's going
to have a slight effect, but
America is saying that we're
here.
They have had a lot of
criticism, President Obama's had
a lot of criticism, not only
internally,
because 50 intelligence people
said that his administration was
trying to gin up a success
against ISIS, and it wasn't
having a success against ISIS.
So I think he's responding to
the internal criticism he's had
in the United States, but also
in the region.
Saudi Arabia and others are
saying Russia's moved into the
region because Obama's got
a very light footprint, and that
there's a power vacuum, and,
therefore, Russia is going
to come in and displace
the United States.
So I think he's trying to turn
up the heat a little bit without
getting America fundamentally
stuck in a third war in the
Middle East, because he's
discovered how difficult it is
to get
out of Iraq or Afghanistan, and
he doesn't want to leave the
next president with a real
American presence in Syria.
So it's doing a little
bit, but not a lot.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, let me ask
you both separately then about
this meeting in Vienna wrapped
up today, two days. These were
representatives of 17 countries,
plus the U.N. and the E.U.
They basically came out with an
agreement, they said, to launch
a new peace effort involving
the Syrian government,
Syrian opposition groups.
How do you read -- Ambassador
McFaul, how do you read what
they're saying in Vienna?
MICHAEL MCFAUL: Well, first of
all, it's always good to talk,
it's always good to negotiate,
as opposed to not talking.
Second point, I think the hidden
news in the statement today was
that they said they're
going to explore modalities for
a cease-fire, but not against
ISIS. And if they do that,
that's a big objective, it's a
big success for the
administration, because, before,
the
Russian forces were attacking
the folks that we were
supporting in Syria, and not
really
attacking ISIL. So that would be
a breakthrough, in and of
itself.
But to your bigger question of
will this be a resolution, this
is just the start of what
would be a very long process. If
you saw the exchanges about
should Assad stay or go, we
were all reminded that we have a
long ways to go before you get a
process in place.
I was part of Geneva I and
Geneva II, the failed processes
before. I guess this is now
Vienna I. And, you know, I'm
skeptical that it will be easy
to do, but I applaud the efforts
for trying.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Joshua Landis, do
you see -- getting back to what
the ambassador said a moment
ago, do you see this as a
potential breakthrough in here
somewhere in dealing with Assad,
President
Assad?
JOSHUA LANDIS: Well, like the
ambassador said, the two sides
are worlds apart.
What they do agree on is that
there has to be a political
solution. What the Russians
and Assad believe a political
solution is that, essentially,
Assad will conquer the
country, and they will kick out
the jihadists, and they will
have a political solution with
the more moderate militias by
bringing them back in from the
cold and having them accept
an Assad regime again.
America, of course, sees a
political solution as Assad
stepping down, having regime
change
that will bring eventually a
semi-ascendancy to Syria. And
those -- the two sides couldn't
farther apart on this. So, I
don't think we're going to see a
resolution any time soon.
What will see is, in a sense,
the United States has said that
Russia is getting into a swamp
in Syria. The big question is,
do they work for a cease-fire or
does America and its allies,
Saudi Arabia, Qatar, Turkey,
throw in more arms, TOW missiles
to fight the Russians and
make sure that they
sink in that swamp?
Or do they not throw in those
weapons and allow Russia to
really dominate Eastern Syria
-- Western Syria, excuse me.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Yes. There are
some real options there for the
parties to consider.
But, Ambassador McFaul, where do
you see the U.S. going from
here? Do you see Ambassador
Kerry -- I'm sorry -- Secretary
Kerry engaging, putting the U.S.
more on the line in Syria
in order to find a solution?
MICHAEL MCFAUL:
Well, two things.
Again, I want to stress the
importance of this possible
cease-fire, because, before,
the Russian attacks were
primarily against moderate
Syrian groups that we were
supporting.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Right.
MICHAEL MCFAUL: And we just
couldn't let that go on. We just
cannot allow the Russians to
kill the people we're
supporting. So that could be an
achievement.
With respect to the second
thing, yes, Secretary Kerry,
he's going to fight for this.
He's
going to be engaged. It's the
way he does business. And there
is no doubt in my mind
that if he sees even a glimmer
of hope, he's going to try to
get these parties together
and work towards a
political transition.
My heart's with him. My head
suggests that it's going to be a
long, difficult fight.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And you both
seem to agree on that.
Joshua Landis, you both are
saying they're very far apart,
but there are some possibilities
here. What are the possibilities
that you see both sides working
on that could turn
this into something positive?
JOSHUA LANDIS: Well, it really
comes down to this -- these more
moderate militias that
are in the west of the country
that Assad wants to take. That's
Aleppo and it's Idlib.
And Russia thinks -- and the
Syrians are all saying, you
know, people in Damascus are
telling
me, we're going to take Aleppo
in three months. Within a year,
you are going to see us mopping
up in this area.
They think they're going to do
this. Now, it's quite clear,
from what the ambassador
said, that America is not going
to allow that to happen. If
they're really going to support
their allies in that region,
they're going to have to send in
more arms in order to scuttle
the Russians' plans and to suck
them into the swamp, so that
they will come back in
a year's time on bended knee and
say, OK, let's talk cease-fire.
The question of where that
cease-fire is going to be, what
lines are going to be drawn
between
sort of Sunni Syria and
regime-dominated Syria is what
it's all about today. And that's
going
to -- a lot of that's going
to depend on military power.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Huge challenge,
and a lot of questions
remaining. And we thank you both
for helping us at least explore
this as it gets under way.
Ambassador McFaul, Joshua
Landis, thank you.
JOSHUA LANDIS:
Pleasure. Thank you.
MICHAEL MCFAUL: Thank you.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And now a look at
the power of organized labor in
politics.
Union membership is down, and
their influence is waning.
But, as political director Lisa
Desjardins reports, Democrats
still vie for their
endorsements.
LISA DESJARDINS: Welcome to
one of 2016's front lines.
PROTESTER: When I say
union, you say power.
PROTESTER: Union!
PROTESTERS: Power!
LISA DESJARDINS: The complex
fight over unions. The drumbeat
was literal in Las Vegas
recently,
as the city's powerful Culinary
Union marched to the Trump
Hotel, which has blocked unions.
PROTESTERS: We are one!
LISA DESJARDINS: But this is
about more than Trump. It is
about union survival. In the
nation as a whole, union
membership peaked long ago, in
1954, when more than one in
three
of all wage and salary workers
were union members. It declined
to 20 percent in 1983,
and then has kept sliding
down to 11.1 percent.
MARIA ELENA DURAZO, Union
Organizer: We're the only
organized force.
LISA DESJARDINS: Longtime union
organizer Maria Elena Durazo.
MARIA ELENA DURAZO: I think,
unfortunately, unions have lost
so much strength and membership,
that our influence isn't what it
once was, but who else besides
unions fights for raising
the minimum wage?
LISA DESJARDINS: This is the
complex part. While unions
represent fewer voters, they
and their fight for wages
remain critical to Democrats.
While some unions have made
endorsements of candidates, some
major ones have not yet.
Those includes the Teamsters
with 1.4 million members and
also the AFL-CIO with 12.5
million
members, both organizations
known for turning out voters.
And the expectation is, if they
pick any candidate, it
will be a Democrat.
And those Democratic campaigns
are furiously fighting to get
their support.
At that local rally
in Las Vegas...
HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (D),
Presidential Candidate: I'm here
in support of Local 226.
LISA DESJARDINS: ... Hillary
Clinton made an unannounced
visit. Just a month earlier,
her opponent Martin O'Malley
also stopped by a Culinary Union
protest. And Bernie Sanders,
he held a town hall with a
pivotal local chapter in March.
Why the contention?
JON RALSTON, "Ralston Reports":
Culinary Union is by far the
biggest, most influential union,
55,000 or so members, but, even
more importantly, the Culinary
Union is the Latino turnout
organization.
LISA DESJARDINS: Jon Ralston,
veteran reporter and the host of
Nevada's premier political
talk show, "The Ralston Report,"
says where unions are growing is
also where the Democratic
Party is growing, with Hispanic
workers. And Nevada's Culinary
Union is using that leverage
with candidates.
JON RALSTON: The Culinary is
doing something very smart, I
think. They've essentially --
withholding
their endorsement, I think they
actually pushed Hillary into the
position they want on the
so-called Cadillac tax in
Obamacare, which they want
repealed.
LISA DESJARDINS: That so-called
Cadillac tax would tax extensive
and expensive insurance
plans that unions fought for. In
recent months, Clinton came out
against the tax. And in another
pro-union stance, she told Judy
Woodruff she opposes the
Trans-Pacific Partnership.
HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON: Now
looking back on it, it doesn't
have the results we thought
it would have in terms of access
to the market, more exports, et
cetera.
LISA DESJARDINS: Her opponent
Bernie Sanders, meantime, has
filed nearly a half-dozen bills
to help unions and has railed
against such trade deals.
SEN. BERNIE SANDERS (VT-I),
Presidential Candidate: These
trade agreements, among other
things,
have contributed to the fact
that we have lost almost 60,000
factories since 2001 and
millions of decent-paying jobs.
And I think enough is enough.
LISA DESJARDINS: But while
Democrats hope for union
support, some key union leaders
have questions for them.
J. David Cox is president of the
American Federation of
Government Employees. He watched
the Democrats' debate in Las
Vegas and he noticed something.
J. DAVID COX, President,
American Federation of
Government Employees: I heard
all five
of the candidates on stage talk
about the need to raise wages in
this country. But the
one thing I didn't hear them
say was the word union.
LISA DESJARDINS: It's as if,
even while asking for their
support, Democrats fear union is
a politically dirty,
unpopular word.
And, indeed, back at the
protest in Las Vegas:
HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON: I just
wanted to come by and lend my
voice to all of yours, to wish
you well in this
effort to organize.
LISA DESJARDINS: Clinton
actually didn't say union there
either. But she did win over
voter
and housekeeper Carmen Llarull.
CARMEN LLARULL, Protester: It's
a big thing. When I see her, I
say, oh, my God, she is
here. So, this rally today is a
win for us, because she just
walked with us.
LISA DESJARDINS: But organizer
Durazo held on to her union's
leverage.
MARIA ELENA DURAZO: It's great
that she was here. We want to
see more of this from her
and from any of the other
candidates. And when they show
interest in our future, we
will show interest
in their future.
LISA DESJARDINS: And the future
question is a big one for
unions, an existential one.
As they work to expand with
immigrant and other worker
groups and try to push Democrats
to the left, unions fear a
potential crushing blow should a
Republican win the White House.
In the union debate, 2016
could be a defining fight.
For the "PBS NewsHour,"
I'm Lisa Desjardins.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Stay with us.
Coming up on the "NewsHour":
what a drinking tradition has to
do with the Greek debt crisis;
and why some co-ops under the
Affordable Care Act are going
bust.
But, first, there is a new
speaker of the U.S. House of
Representatives, and the
political
landscape may be shifting in the
Republican race for the White
House.
For that and more, we turn to
the analysis of Shields and
Brooks. That's syndicated
columnist
Mark Shields and New York
Times columnist David Brooks.
Welcome to you, gentlemen.
MARK SHIELDS: Judy.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Friday before
Halloween. Thank you for being
here.
So, let's talk about the lead
story tonight, Mark, and that is
the decision by the
administration
to send less than 50 special
operations troops into Syria.
They say, it's not a change,
there
won't be -- they won't
be involved in combat.
But does this make it any
clearer what the
administration's strategy is in
Syria?
MARK SHIELDS: No.
And it's -- well, taking them at
their word that they won't be
involved in combat, Judy,
obviously, they are now in
harm's way. And it increases the
risk or exposure of capture
and all that that could mean.
DAVID BROOKS: Yes. My view is,
you can leave the Middle East,
but it won't leave you. And
so the president's tried to
withdraw from the Middle East
and withdraw separately from
Afghanistan, and, as a result,
there has been a void and a
chaos and the destruction of
these two countries, of Syria
and Iraq, as we formerly knew
them, a continued crisis
in Afghanistan.
And so he's begun to look around
and seeing the situation
deteriorating, and he's trying
to adjust. And, to his credit,
he's trying to adjust in a way
that's politically embarrassing,
because he made these
statements, we will not put
combat -- we will not put boots
on
the ground. He said
it bluntly in Syria.
But he's doing the right thing.
The question is, is there a
strategy? And I still don't
see what the strategy is. Are we
willing to tolerate Assad? Are
we just trying to get
ISIS? Are we trying to get
Assad? Who are we actually
trying to get?
And then it's -- the steps are
so small. And so it looks like
the classic case of mission
creep. And what happens if one
of these guys gets captured?
What happens if a Russian bomb
lands on them? You can imagine
the world the day after that.
And so one would feel more
comfortable if there was some
plausible road forward, rather
than what you get this feeling
is, of a series of tactical
mission creeps.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Do you think
there is a strategy that the
administration is just not
sharing
with us, Mark? Do you think
that is what is going on?
MARK SHIELDS: Well, that may
very well be the case. I'm
always willing to admit my own
ignorance.
But four dozen American special
forces doesn't seem to be a
particular answer. This is --
you
know, David is right.
Acknowledging the stakes is good
for any president to do. But we
have
drawn red lines. We have said
what was intolerable. Assad had
to go.
Now we're looking at an
election. And I hope Geneva is
successful. I hope that there is
an election. I hope he's voted
out and that he leaves. But I
don't see a master strategy
at work.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, speaking of
master strategies and bringing
it all the way back home, we
do have a new speaker of the
House of Representatives. Paul
Ryan was elected this week.
He had said for days that he
wasn't interested, but he
finally came around and he won a
big
-- David, a big majority of the
Republicans. I guess only nine
voted against him. I guess
my -- but my question is, he
said in his speech yesterday the
House is broken, we're going
to start doing things
differently, we're going to work
with the other party.
Is that something
he can deliver on?
DAVID BROOKS: Well,
temperamentally, he's sort of
fit for it. He had a nice line
in
there, that he said, if we have
clarity, we will have more
charity.
And that is both sides of him.
He has certain convictions, a
pretty conservative guy. But
he is also a really nice guy who
does get along with people and
who is a very charitable
guy. And so I think,
temperamentally, he's well
suited for the moment, as much
as anybody
can be.
But he does believe in certain
things. And I think, if there is
-- can be small agreements
over the next couple of months,
or 18 months, whatever it is, he
will go for it. But I don't
expect that to happen. I think
the big news of Paul Ryan's
ascension is that it's possible
that the Republican Party, after
really veering off into some
very dangerous political
territory,
now as its most prominent
spokesperson has Paul Ryan, a
very mainstream, popular,
admirable,
and attractive figure.
It may, if the presidential race
turns out a certain way, have
Marco Rubio. And Ryan
and Rubio is a generational
shift and probably quite an
excellent leadership team as the
two faces of the
Republican Party.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So you're tying
it to the presidential.
But just for a minute keeping it
in the House, Mark, is he --
he's saying, I want to work
with the Democrats. I want to
work -- he said, I want to do
some bipartisan things. But
that's
exactly what the most
conservative -- the Freedom
Caucus says they don't want to
do.
MARK SHIELDS: Yes, I
agree with David.
Paul Ryan is liked by Democrats
who have worked with him. If you
like somebody and agree with
their politics, you say he's a
person of convictions. If you
don't like what the person
stands for,
you can say he's an ideologue.
Democrats say that Paul Ryan is
an ideologue and that he
does -- that he's
open to discussion.
And he's -- two things. I
thought he was quite cute in
saying that he -- on the budget
agreement
that was reached, two years,
which really makes his
speakership a lot more palatable
and possible success...
JUDY WOODRUFF: Which Boehner,
the former speaker...
MARK SHIELDS: Which John Boehner
was the architect of and forged.
He didn't -- he condemned the
process, but he endorsed the
product. He voted for it,
I mean, while condemning the
process, which was sort of a bow
to the right and to the
Freedom Caucus.
But it's a generational switch.
We have had -- now for eight
years, we have had Nancy
Pelosi as the Democratic House
leader and John Boehner as the
Republican House leader,
switching back and forth on the
speakership, Harry Reid, who is
going to retire, as the
Democratic leader in the
Senate, and Mitch McConnell.
And this really is a major
generational -- generational
shift. I think, Judy, quite
bluntly -- David
mentioned the presidential -- I
think the Republicans are in
such dire circumstances
right now presidentially, right
-- they're on the cusp of
offering the nation two people
who are, frankly, unelectable,
in Ben Carson and Donald Trump,
in my judgment, in the general
election, that Paul Ryan as the
face of that party is very
important.
He's going to have a tough task.
I mean, if either Trump or
Carson is the nominee, then
I think the Republicans
could lose the House.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, pick up on
this theme of a generational
change, because you had
-- and my question, David, is
coming off this debate this
week, where we didn't hear as
much from Donald Trump and Ben
Carson, and there just seemed to
be, you know, a sense
that Marco Rubio did well, the
senator from Florida, Ted Cruz,
the senator from Texas,
they're -- what are they,
both 44, 45 years old.
They're of the generation
you just spoke about.
DAVID BROOKS: Right.
And so I think it matters in two
ways. The first way is, there
are a lot of people who
grew up in the age of Reagan.
And Reagan's solutions are
sufficient, so let's cut
marginal
tax rates, let's pretend we're
going to cut the size of
government, and that's our
policy.
But Marco Rubio, frankly, and
Paul Ryan grew up in a different
era. They grew up in an
era where there were structural
changes in the economy that were
structural break -- fissures
in the economy, such that you
could have growth, but no wage
growth. And so they understand
it's not enough to
just cut taxes.
And so they have -- they, both
Ryan and Rubio, Cruz a little
less so, but have specific
targeted
policies like wage subsidies and
stuff like that designed to get
money directly to the
lower middle class, the people
who have seen their wages
stagnant.
So, there's an ideological
shift. And then we just happened
to have the fact that Ryan
and Rubio in particular, Cruz a
bit less, but also, they're so
wonky. Pelosi, Boehner,
McConnell, these are political
people. Paul Ryan comes out of
Empower America, a think
tank. He's a think tank guy who
just happens to have some
political skills. Rubio is a
bit of the same.
And so they're the wonkiest pair
we have had leading a party, if
they become that, of our
lifetime.
JUDY WOODRUFF: But, at this
point, Mark, is -- you just said
a minute ago the Republican
Party is on the verge of
something, of coming apart.
MARK SHIELDS: I think, Judy,
people comfort themselves.
Republicans say, oh, it's like
2012, when we switched from Rick
Perry to Herman Cain to Mitt
Romney, then to Newt Gingrich,
then to Rick Santorum,
then back to Mitt Romney.
No, it isn't like 2012. Now
we're looking at -- we're going
into a year from the election,
a year from the election, and we
have at the top, at the very
summit, we have Ben Carson,
Dr. Ben Carson, retired
neurosurgeon, and Donald Trump.
Now, if you think about it, in
that debate -- and David can
talk on it -- I thought Rubio
had a good night, but, I mean,
Donald Trump shows an
indifference to truth that
borders
on contempt. I mean,
when asked by...
JUDY WOODRUFF: What
are you referring...
MARK SHIELDS: When asked by
Becky Quick, who said, you know,
you have said that Marco Rubio
was Mark Zuckerberg's favorite
senator, or basically his
servant, "Where do you get this
kind of stuff?"
Well, it turns out
it's on his Web site.
And Ben Carson says, I believe
we should tithe. That's the
taxing -- our tax system should
be based on tithing, said --
well, you have said that it
should be 10 percent, Dr.
Carson.
"I never said 10 percent." Now,
and Leviticus apparently says 15
percent. He's changed it
to 15 percent.
(LAUGHTER)
MARK SHIELDS: But, I mean, it's
just -- these are -- quite
candidly, they have candidates
who appeal to many Republicans.
And I'm not faulting them for
appealing to them.
David Axelrod, Barack Obama's
architect, said that, in the
summer, you're in the beauty
suit, the bathing suit
competition. You're kind of
looking and who do you like?
Then
you move into the talent
test competition.
We're in the talent test
competition now. And these two
are still at the top. And the
only establishment candidate who
really offers a potential help
is Marco Rubio.
I thought Ted Cruz had the best
night of anybody in the room. I
mean, he just showed himself
to be brilliant and agile, and I
thought just as gifted a knifer
as anybody I have ever
seen.
(LAUGHTER)
DAVID BROOKS: Republicans just
like the bathing suits a little
more this year.
MARK SHIELDS: Yes, they do.
(LAUGHTER)
DAVID BROOKS: So, I think it's
going to be cold. It will be a
little colder. It will
be December. They will be
in their bathing suits.
But they can't nominate this
guy. Major parties do not
nominate people like Carson and
Trump.
These guys are so incompetent.
Whenever the actual subject is
running the country, they
just disappear from the debates.
And I just have to feel -- I
have had no evidence for this.
And I have said this for six
months
now, that they're
about to collapse.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Not that we're
keeping track. Not that we're
keeping track.
(CROSSTALK)
DAVID BROOKS: The emerald path
will get to Oz, the curtain will
come down, and Marco
Rubio will emerge triumphant.
(LAUGHTER)
JUDY WOODRUFF: We have heard
you mention this before.
But what about...
DAVID BROOKS: I think it will --
I do think it will be Cruz and
Rubio at the end of the
day. I think Cruz will inherit
the -- and Republicans are
really angry.
They think the country is going
down the tubes. And so they have
to express that somehow.
They are expressing it now. And
I think -- but those voters will
eventually wind up with
Cruz, and then the mainstream
voters will wind up with
somebody like Rubio or Kasich
or who knows.
But I just can't imagine. A
major American party doesn't
nominate Donald Trump. I just
can't believe it. I will have
to go to Canada after that.
(LAUGHTER)
JUDY WOODRUFF: But what about
Mark's point about -- you get to
react.
(CROSSTALK)
JUDY WOODRUFF: But what about
Mark's point about -- some of
the candidates were asked
questions, and then it turns out
later what they said didn't hold
out? So, what about...
DAVID BROOKS: Yes. There was the
Carson moment with the dietary
supplement thing.
They -- I think the questioners
were not prepared for the
brazenness of the lies. Now, I
don't
totally blame Donald Trump for
not knowing what's on his Web
page. I can't imagine he
ever read his Web page. He's
not into that sort of stuff.
But there was a certain
brazenness to it.
MARK SHIELDS: Yes.
DAVID BROOKS: And that's been
true of this year, that you --
somehow, there is no political
price.
I think that's what Donald Trump
-- that is why he is a bit of a
game-changer, because
he has said eight million things
that are normally disqualifying,
but because the electorate
is so angry, at least that part
of the electorate, they say,
well, you know, he says all this
crazy stuff, but we need
somebody who can really shake
things up. So they are willing
to tolerate it.
I still don't think they are
going to tolerate it at the end
of the day. That's my religion
right now.
MARK SHIELDS: Just take just
quick exception to David's
laudatory testimonial and
tribute
to Paul Ryan and to Marco Rubio.
Republicans still are addicted
to the idea that once won them
the presidency. And that
was Ronald Reagan, cutting taxes
by a third, double the defense
budget and all the rest
of it. And they still pay lip
service, unbelievably, to a
balanced budget, as they are
offering
supply-side tax cuts.
The two are just polar opposites
and mutually exclusive, but they
still talk in those terms:
Oh, yes, we will have a balanced
budget amendment as well.
And supply-side -- I think it's
been proved at this point that
supply-side basically helps
those who are already
well-supplied.
JUDY WOODRUFF: This is
all about cutting taxes.
MARK SHIELDS: It really is. And
I just think they all come back
to that.
Even Rubio, who is more
different and more creative, it
comes back to top -- cutting
the rate on the top.
DAVID BROOKS: A little less
emphasis on that from Rubio.
MARK SHIELDS: Yes.
DAVID BROOKS: When taxes were up
at 50 percent, you can cut them
down and it may have a big
effect. Now they're in the 30s.
It has less effect. Rubio
acknowledges that.
But their budgets don't add up.
I totally concede that point.
MARK SHIELDS: OK.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, next week,
we will get out the calculator
and figure it out.
(LAUGHTER)
JUDY WOODRUFF: David Brooks,
Mark Shields, thank you both.
Now we head to Greece, a country
that's been inundated by a surge
of refugees washing up
on its shores.
At the same time, Greece is
still reeling from a financial
crisis. The government has
been forced to cut spending and
raise revenue. Many citizens
aren't happy, especially with
a tax hike on a beloved
national drink.
Hari Sreenivasan has that story.
HARI SREENIVASAN: In a barn full
of pungent fumes, Demetrios
Papafigos is distilling,
applying the techniques of monks
who created this
quintessentially Greek elixir in
the
14th century.
This alcohol time capsule, in
the central town of Tyrnavos, is
at the heart of the latest
tax dispute in a country that's
broke and under intense pressure
to extract as much
revenue as possible from its
citizens. Brewed from fermented
grape skins, it's a powerful,
clear type of brandy, similar to
Italy's grappa, called tsipouro.
DEMETRIOS PAPAFIGOS, Brewer
(through translator): Tsipouro
provides the grape growers with
supplementary
income. Without it, the
vineyards would have to be
uprooted. The vineyards wouldn't
survive
otherwise.
They have only survived thanks
to production of tsipouro,
because, during difficult times,
when bad weather destroyed the
crop, we could even distill
damaged grapes and make some
money.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Fellow grape
farmers from this close-knit
community have joined Papafigos
for lunch, washed down,
of course, with tsipouro.
If the European Union gets its
way, the tsipouro makers will
have to pay double the alcohol
excise duty, which is currently
applied. At the moment, the
liquor enjoys a low taxation
rate because it's considered to
be a traditional speciality, not
one that's mass produced.
And Antonis Giamelides, the
technical director of the local
cooperative, is deeply
concerned.
ANTONIS GIAMELIDES, Cooperative
Technical Director: It's a crazy
situation. We don't
know what will happen tomorrow.
If the excise taxes go up at
that level, then it will destroy
all the wine production in
Greece, because these people
will not be producing any grapes
anymore, because it
will not be profitable.
HARI SREENIVASAN: At the moment,
there's no sign as to whether
Greece plans to obey the
European Union. But, if it does,
the tax increase will be
implemented within the next
month
or so.
The European Union argues
tsipouro doesn't warrant the
lower rate, and claims small
home
brewers are cheating the system
by supplying restaurants on an
industrial scale. But the
Greeks are worried that
manufacturers in neighboring
Albania and Bulgaria will flood
the market
with black market tsipouro.
Silas Rapsaniotis, president of
the cooperative, warns that it
won't just be the farmers who
will suffer.
SILAS RAPSANIOTIS, Cooperative
President (through translator):
There will be no profit for any
of the businesses. The industry
will close down. It will be a
huge catastrophe here.
It will stop being the poor
man's drink. It won't be drunk
at lunchtime, and it will have
a negative knock-on effect for
other connected businesses.
There will be shops such as
restaurants
that will close down.
HARI SREENIVASAN: In one of many
working-class districts in
Athens, the Greek capital, this
teetotaling vegetarian
correspondent went in search
through meat and fish markets
for
the Hellenic equivalent
of moonshine.
Do you think people will drink
less if the tax goes up?
COSTAS KARAGIANNIS,
Business Owner: Of course.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Costas
Karagiannis runs a lunch joint
in the city's main market, where
tsipouro is a staple.
COSTAS KARAGIANNIS: The
customers will have to pay, more
expensive. And this time in
Greece,
it's too difficult
to pay anything.
HARI SREENIVASAN: One of the
reasons a tax on tsipouro
strikes such a nerve is because
it's not the fancy stuff. It's a
commoner's drink. People have it
with meat and cheese
in the middle of the day. It's
part of the Greek circle of
life.
At this pavement cafe not far
from the market, these
pensioners were making the most
of the
circle of life at
11:00 in the morning.
MAN (through translator): We'd
rather give up food than
tsipouro. Tsipouro is drunk when
the child is born, at its
baptism, at its wedding, and
even at his funeral.
MAN (through translator): For
us, tsipouro is the best drink
of all.
HARI SREENIVASAN: At the booze
shop next door, the owner was
quickly decanting four pints
of the home brew for a taverna
owner who was expecting a rush
at lunchtime. The rough stuff
is cheaper than bottled
tsipouro, but even so, this man
doesn't think his customers can
take the extra tax hit.
MAN: I think all restaurants
are going to close.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Why?
MAN: Because the prices are
too high, about the tax, yes.
HARI SREENIVASAN: We asked the
Greek Finance Ministry for an
interview, but no one was
available. However, the
country's former chief tax
inspector, Harry Theocharis, did
talk
to us, and was sympathetic
to the grape farmers.
HARRY THEOCHARIS, Former Chief
Greek Tax Inspector: Any tax at
this point in time which is a
drag
on growth is a problem, because
Greece's problem is jobs. That's
our number one problem, and
we need to do anything in our
power in order to create more
investment and more jobs.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Do you think
that a tax like this will create
an incentive for a larger
black market in this?
HARRY THEOCHARIS: It's possible.
We already do have a big black
market, due to the way
that we license those
small producers.
HARI SREENIVASAN: How crucial is
this to the overall financial
health of the country?
HARRY THEOCHARIS: This is a very
small, small issue. I think it
starts with the commission
taking us to court in order to
have a level, fair playing
field, so this has nothing to
do with the actual austerity. It
is not a measure that is done
because of that.
HARI SREENIVASAN: And that last
answer gives hope to the people
of Tyrnavos. Under their
interpretation of European
rules, Greece can refuse to
implement the tax increase. They
just hope that, after giving in
to Europe over so many financial
issues, the government
in Athens will be prepared
to fight for tsipouro.
ANTONIS GIAMELIDES: That's our
tradition. That's our kind of
living, right? So, if we
lose that, we're
losing everything.
HARI SREENIVASAN: In Greece,
tsipouro is known as the tear of
the land. But will this part
of the land soon be in tears?
The key question for the
government is whether collecting
extra
taxes makes good short-term
sense, or is bad for the economy
in the long term.
For the "PBS NewsHour," Hari
Sreenivasan, Athens, Greece.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Now to the second
part of our look at the
Affordable Care Act and health
insurance coverage, as
year three gets under way.
This weekend marks the beginning
of open enrollment in the health
exchanges, and we're looking
at some of the questions about
costs and coverage. One
development this fall that's
turning into
a concern for some consumers, a
series of collapses of an
alternative to traditional
insurance plans known as co-ops.
Nearly a half of them, which
were created through the
Affordable Care Act, are now
shutting
down.
I sat down to discuss this all
yesterday with Mary Agnes Carey
of Kaiser Health News.
And Mary Agnes Carey
is with us again.
So, welcome back.
MARY AGNES CAREY, Kaiser
Health News: Thanks.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Now, let's focus
on these -- this thing called
co-ops. Remind us exactly what
they are. And what did the
administration want them to
accomplish?
MARY AGNES CAREY: As they were
negotiating the Affordable Care
Act, Democrats wanted
a public option. They wanted a
uniform option available to
everyone across the country for
health insurance. That
wasn't going to happen.
But, as an alternative, they
created these independent,
nonprofit co-ops that were to
be an alternative to the
traditional insurer. And it was
to be an option for consumers.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And they had --
they believed this was going to
cover a chunk of the uninsured
out there?
MARY AGNES CAREY:
They absolutely did.
But they ran into a few
roadblocks. For example, in a
budget deal a few years ago, the
funding
for co-ops was cut. There
recently was an announcement
from the Department of Health
and Human Services they couldn't
give these companies and others
as much as anticipated
to help offset some of the
higher-cost cases. And that's
where some of the co-ops got
into
trouble.
Some of them were very popular.
They were low-cost alternatives.
That meant sometimes
sicker beneficiaries came to
them. And that's where some of
the financial problems happened.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, let's look,
Mary Agnes, at a gentleman. He's
-- his name is Edward
Azria. He lives in New York. He
was in a co-op in Brooklyn, but
then it collapsed. Let's
hear from him.
EDWARD AZRIA, New York Resident:
The premium and the deductibles
were good, certainly for
my needs, because I'm not
habitually in the doctor's
office for anything.
And so it was easy to maintain,
coming out and starting out on
my own, to take that monthly
payment where it was, without
having it be too heavy of a
burden going forward. And they
provided everything
that I needed.
My biggest worry is that, to
stay within the same price
point, if it's even going to be
possible, is the level of
services going to be diminished
because they have to make up
for it? The price point of the
co-op was obviously too good to
be true.
So, it is going to be
interesting to see what they
actually do come up with and if
they're
going to cut the services
to make up for it.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, Mary Agnes,
what does the administration do
for someone like Mr. Azria?
MARY AGNES CAREY: HHS Secretary
Sylvia Burwell had a briefing
with reporters. She was asked
a few questions about the
co-ops. She said, they're going
to have special outreach to
these folks.
We're talking about 500,000
people or more in the 10 co-ops
that have folded that are
going to be out there looking
for plans, reaching out to them,
explaining to them how to look,
how to navigate for their plans.
And also they're trying to
investigate what they might
be able to do, they being the
Department of Health and Human
Services, either
administratively
or through the legislative
process, to try to grant some
relief to some of these co-ops,
because of course there are some
that are still struggling
financially.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And do they think
they are going to be able to
find an option for someone
like him at the
same price point?
MARY AGNES CAREY: I
think they could.
You have to remember that, in
the Affordable Care Act, there
are different tiers of coverage,
bronze, silver, gold, and
platinum. If he's interested in
a lower monthly premium, a
bronze
plan might work for him. It may
not be the exact same plan he
had in his co-op, which
he obviously really liked.
But, again, that's where,
whether you go on to
healthcare.gov yourself, or you
get assistance
from a broker or an insurance
agent, or work with many of the
community groups that are
kind of on the ground trying to
help people find coverage, he's
going to have to get in
there and look, what's covered,
are my doctors covered, are my
prescription drugs covered,
how much does this plan cost in
the premium, in the
out-of-pocket costs, what's the
total
package, and how does it compare
to what he had and what he can
afford?
JUDY WOODRUFF: Explain again,
Mary Agnes, why a number of
these co-ops just didn't make
it.
MARY AGNES CAREY: They had
basically had solvency issues,
financial solvency issues.
If they were the lower price
point, that tended to attract
sicker beneficiaries. That would
drive up their costs. They had
anticipated fairly large
payments from the federal
government
to help offset the cost
of those sicker folks.
But, of course, as we mentioned
earlier, there was a change and
their funding was cut early
on in inception of the co-ops.
And then, secondly, there was
another legislative change that
adjusted the amount of money
that the federal government
could pay them.
It's a program that says, if you
have a lot of healthier
beneficiaries, you pay in, and
that is the insurers pay in and
that money is distributed to the
insurance plans that
take care of the sicker folks.
The insurers, including many of
these co-ops, expected a much
more generous payment from
the administration than they're
receiving. And that has hurt
their bottom line.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, what can the
administration do to shore them
up, or can -- or is there
-- are there options?
MARY AGNES CAREY: Well, for 10
of them at this point, they're
folding. They can't enroll
people in 2016. There are
23 co-ops. Ten are gone.
So, for the other 13, perhaps
the administration could do
something, whether it's through
their
own administrative power or
through working with Congress,
because, remember, this is
affecting people's constituents.
So, members of Congress are
hearing about this. There's
actually two congressional
hearings that are going to
happen next week.
So, I expect there will be
greater focus on this, looking
at the co-ops that are still
functioning and can
they help them.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, as we wrap
up, remind us again, when is
this third annual enrollment
period coming up? And any other
advice for people who are
looking at whether or not they
should sign up?
MARY AGNES CAREY: Open
enrollment starts November the
1st, but you can get on
healthcare.gov
now and do some window shopping.
If you want health insurance to
start January 1, you need to
enroll by December the 15th.
People always kind of forget
that. There is an administrative
period that needs to happen
to get your coverage going. And
you can enroll through the end
of January.
So, another piece of advice,
don't wait until the deadline.
Everyone -- we all love to wait
for the deadline,
but don't do that.
JUDY WOODRUFF: That's me.
MARY AGNES CAREY: Yes. Me, too.
I'm a reporter. That's what we
live by.
But it would be important. If
you're interested in this, I
would encourage people to get on
early and check it out. And if
you need in-person assistance,
get it. Look for a local
enrollment
event. Call the 800 number on
healthcare.gov. Get the help
that you need.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So you can call
that number and get help?
MARY AGNES CAREY: You can call
that number and get help.
They say they have -- they being
-- the Department of Health and
Human Services says they have
improved the functionality of
not only the Web site, but to
make sure those lines, those
toll-free lines, are answered
and that people know what
they're talking about.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Mary Agnes Carey
with Kaiser Health News, getting
everybody ready for this
third period of enrollment,
thank you very much.
MARY AGNES CAREY:
Sure. Thank you.
JUDY WOODRUFF: On the "NewsHour"
online: Much has been discussed
around Congress' budget
and debt deal that's been sent
to President Obama's desk. But
our Making Sense columnist
Larry Kotlikoff warns that the
bill cuts Social Security
benefits for millions of
Americans.
What exactly are those cuts? He
spells them out in today's
column, which you can find
on our home page.
And, remember, you can sign up
for "NewsHour"'s politics
e-mails to receive weekly
analysis
from Mark and David, and also
the rest of our politics team.
There's a link to subscribe
on our home page. That's
PBS.org/NewsHour.
And a reminder about some
upcoming programs from our PBS
colleagues.
Gwen Ifill is preparing for
"Washington Week," which airs
later tonight. Here's a preview.
GWEN IFILL: It's the revenge of
the 40-somethings. Paul Ryan,
Marco Rubio, Ted Cruz, each had
a breakthrough week. But what
does that mean for Trump,
Carson, Bush, and the House
Freedom
Caucus? An intraparty fight
could define Republican politics
for a generation. Plus, boots on
the ground in Syria.
We will delve into all that
tonight on "Washington Week" --
Judy.
JUDY WOODRUFF: On tomorrow's
edition of "PBS NewsHour
Weekend," will a new
desalination
plant help to solve
California's water crisis?
MAN: This facility will create
an opportunity to learn as to
what large-scale desalination
could mean to Southern
California and the rest of the
state, for that matter. We have
got the largest reservoir in
the world at our doorstep.
MIKE TAIBBI: That all sounds
good, a drought-proof supply of
fresh water. But critics say
there
are still questions about desal
and the bandwagon is filling up
way too fast.
MAN: We're sort of sticking
ourselves in the cycle. You
can't really desal yourself out
of a drought, because what
you're doing is partly
contributing to the exacerbation
of
climate change and
droughts long-term.
MIKE TAIBBI: Even with a
sufficient design, the plant
will burn from 840 megawatts of
power per day, about the same
amount of electricity used to
power nearly 30,000 homes.
JUDY WOODRUFF: You can see the
whole story tomorrow night on
"PBS NewsHour Weekend."
And that's the "NewsHour" for
tonight. I'm Judy Woodruff.
Have a great weekend. Thank
you, and good night.